I found my name on it. Well, the old man says,
I don't know what we're going to do. He was pulling
my leg because he knew the whole story by then. Then
the... Well, what happened? Nothing. They just
took the bomb site and left us alone. They had us a
little worried there for a week, ten days,
something like that.
Then the North African invasion started.
And
it had been going on, and they had been struggling
down on the complete opposite end of the United
Kingdom, down the land's end. And the pirates
would be in London, Our old man up there in
Prestwick said, OK, we want you to go down there and
take over. And from three different locations, we
were dispatching fighters to go down and get in the
act. And this was about
January, February, I guess, of 43.
And he said, OK, but I want to take certain people
with me and all right just don't just don't pull the
whole outfit down because we're going to have to
replace it so he i was the first 20 name he said i want
you to go and so we were lucky the we he and i flew down
and those enlisted personnel and the vehicles
that he wanted to go down had to go by road and i don't
know how much you know about the united kingdom but
long about the time they got uh Truro and kept
heading south, well, road signs started
disappearing and every time you'd ask, they'd ask
for instructions. Well, they may get the right
instructions, they may not because the people
were beginning to get leery, you know, and they
didn't know whether they were Yanks or whether
they were German looking like Yanks or what. It
took the convoy about a week or ten days longer than
they should have just to find their way in. But then
when we did get in and got set up, it was a real good
operation. And as long as we were sending
lightning down, that was all right. Because those
boys had two engines. But any time we'd send a
single engine aircraft flight down. Down to North
Africa? Down to North Africa. We just prayed the
whole time because he had about flight time plus 10
minutes, and that's all he had. To make the trip. To
make it, you know. And it got pretty hairy. Did you
lose a lot of things? Oh, yeah. The fact is we even
lost some that plotted getting to Lisbon, turn
left, you know. Never try to make it. Just get to
Lisbon and turn left. and go on into Lisbon and
finish out in the war. As an intern in Lisbon,
Portugal.
We entertained an awful lot of people coming back
up. Montgomery used to come in every once in a
while. Oh, really? Yeah, he'd come in. Why he would
come to us, I don't know. But he'd come to us and ask
for transportation to the closest banking town,
rather than go to the RAF. And you don't know why
he'd do that? Well, see, we were still Army. We were
Army Air Corps, US type. But he wouldn't go to the
RAF. And sure enough, we had to supply him
transportation. Let him go in and do his banking
business. Maybe provide him a place to sleep so he
didn't have to go into the RAF officer's quarters
the next day back to North Africa.
And what did you think of Montgomery? What,
Montgomery? Oh, I thought he was a brilliant
tactician.
Eisenhower couldn't get along with everybody. He
couldn't get along with de Gaulle either. No,
absolutely. What do you think of the American
aircraft versus the British? The what? American
airplanes versus the British.
Well, I don't really think
you can really compare them because
The British were building aircraft with their
backs to the wall. And we were still building Rolls
Royce aircraft.
When the chips were down, ours came through. But
theirs came off the line a hell of a lot quicker. And
probably didn't spend as much for coffee as ours.
Our particular location, where the colonel and I
were, was known as a place called Port Reef, which
is a cliff about 50 yards above the sea. And
after the 17 hit the Hugo's Pen, we used to get birds
back in there recovering rather than going on back
to the bomber base. It couldn't make it back.
We've actually been on a cliff and seen a B-17
deliberately come down and hit the water just so it
would bounce as high as the cliff. Really? Oh,
yeah. No kidding? Yeah. Did they make it? Sure.
Were there any that did? None that crashed into the
cliff, but some that when they did make it up
there... came on in with a gear down or something
like that and then we could take whatever people
were still alive and then push the bird aside.
Now why would they do that? You mean coming in that
way? Rather than ditch? The last thing they'd want
to do is ditch out there in that cold water.
Especially if they had wounded before. They'd
have to get the wounded ashore to pick the land.
That's where we saw our first jet, but the British
wouldn't let us see it. Oh, but tell me about that.
That part of the country has always been a testing
area, and since then I have been back to that
particular base, and it is a closed base now. But
this must have been in late 43 before I moved on into
Israel. the London area,
there was a fighter that came in and it was making a
strange noise and it started taxiing down the
taxiway and somebody else says, hey look at that
damn thing, there's no propeller on it. And two of
us jumped in a jeep and tried to catch it and they
turned in a hanger and they slammed the door on it
before we could get there. But, of course, at that
time, we didn't know what the hell it was. But it was
one of their first jets. What did it look like? It
looked like a mosquito with just chopped off, you
know. It was real small, right? Yeah.
When you were down at Nantes Landing, were you
servicing the bombers coming back and the
fighters? Our main mission was getting the
fighters to North Africa and receiving the
freight and passengers that were coming across
the South Atlantic into our theater. Because the
organization that we were with also had
intra-theater
transportation. I see. C-47s and Lockheed Lone
Stars that the British had gotten from us and then
turned back to us, and they'd fly five or six
passengers, something like that. Not much
freight, but anyway, they'd outlive their
usefulness on coastal patrol, and they went over
to them on wind lease, and then they gave back to
them.
But because we were down there and because we were
U.S. forces, any of the U.S. troops that are planes
that came in to recover, it was up to us to take care
of them
and get them back up there out there. Were you
bombed quite a bit by the Germans? No, not down
there. Why not? It's a long way from here. Oh. It's a
good long way. He got to spend that much time
bombing there. It was to his advantage to keep out
to London or the industrial park, not down there,
not to run in on a fighter base or something.
No, we felt relatively comfortable there. How did
you get along with the people? I mean, not the
people, not the military, British military, but
just the people in the communities. Well,
okay we lived in the we lived off base yeah they
didn't have quarters for you on base well the
enlisted lived on on base in what we'd call a car
paper shack now but the officers lived in
different houses that had been requisitioned by
the RAF, but they were spotted. Next door would be
just a British family. But in this particular
house, according to the size of it, just how many
RAF and US would live. I lived in a room with four
other American officers, but down the hall there
was a room with three British officers. That was
the first time that I'd ever been exposed to, you
know, they call them batmen, is a service
personnel that cleans their shoes and makes up
their beds and brings them tea in the morning and so
on. Well, they had bat women. The British officers
had bat women. Well, the House would. So they'd
come in and wake us up, hand us the tea. Really? Oh,
yeah. That sounds like a pretty comfortable
situation. Yeah, especially those guys that were
single, you know. But some of them were pretty
bad guys. And it was there that you made major? No, I
went through that as a captain. I made pager when I
moved into the London area.
And I made pager one November 44. Oh, okay. Well,
first, you went from second to first to captain. A
year, just every year. A year, every year. How can
you account for that? That's tremendous.
I guess. I mean, you know, like...
No way of being humble. I just say that's back to the
goals that I had set. I was going to be a military man
in the period. That was my forte. And like I said
earlier, I could see contemporaries that just
didn't make it that fast. You've got to put it
somewhere. Because it wasn't all under the same
people.
I don't think I've ever had two promotions done on
the same person.
What were the thoughts on the German Luftwaffe?
Do you think it was a formidable air force?
Yes.
I, my analysis or evaluation of the whole thing is
just that
discipline, the installation of discipline is
more difficult at the top level than it is with the
truth. You can make troops realize the importance
of discipline, principally for their own safety
and welfare. But you try to do that at the top, and
you're going to get nothing except disbelievers.
And this is where the whole thing fell apart. There
was not discipline at the time. I'm not talking
about it in the book.
when the Luftwaffe no longer controlled the
Luftwaffe, it began to just completely fall
apart. And when the decision was made to put so much
emphasis into the B-1 and the B-2 and less into the
Luftwaffe, he lost one of the biggest weapons the
world's ever known. Would you like something to
drink? Let's see if we can
Okay, so your duties changed in 1944 when you went
to Wanda. Is that correct? Yeah, I became what was
known as an air inspector. It's a fancy name for
inspector general. Oh, I see. But the Air Force or
Air Corps had to be different from its Army
sisters. They called them air inspectors. And we
were then, to give you an idea, we were then a group
that had been formed in the theater. It was not
formed in the United States. Everything was put
together over there. It was equipped over there.
And we had
four transport squadrons We had two fairing
squadrons.
We had a quartermaster truck company. And we were
scattered all over the United Kingdom. The
transport squadrons, they speak for themselves.
They just moved stuff within the theater. The
fairing squadrons actually...
moved the replacement aircraft from the depot up
to the combat unit. If a unit lost a bomber,
our taxi aircraft, which was usually a gutted B-17
or B-24, would take crews over to the depot They'd
give them one and say, OK, take it to the building
hall or wherever it was going. And they'd deliver
the aircraft. And then the taxi would come by later
and pick them up. Well, there was a time in the war
when
we just lost a hell of a lot of crews.
Why? It would beat the daylights out of them for
about six months. And we were losing them. And we
had orders from Spots headquarters that the taxi
aircraft would not pick our boys up until early the
next morning and then take them to the depot and let
them make a run. And our boys didn't even go back to
their own base. And
what was happening was they would go and fill the
empty chairs in the dining halls and drink at the
bars at night, you know, and keep the places just
from looking like they had just lost everything.
And so the same thing happened to My crew and me, as
we traveled around, the old man said, okay, if
Tui's doing it to the pilots, you do the same thing.
Anytime you've got to move, you move in the morning
and be sure that you all stay put at night. And
again, our location, we were in Ireland, back at
that place that I started in Scotland, Land's End,
about six or eight places in England. And we just
moved from place to place on IG inspections.
All I can say about it, it's a job. It certainly
broadens you.
Exactly what were you searching for during the
inspections? Any type of
misappropriation. misalignment or infraction
of a major rule that would hurt the operation or
something like that. To wit. Hurt the operation of
the Air Force or certain airplanes? Both. And to
wit. The old man called me in one day and he says,
over at so-and-so. And that was where we were
loading jerrycans with gasoline, and they were
flying them to the continent to pack them. And
these birds would just go back and forth. They'd
come in and land, and they'd taxi the bird right up
to a pile of jerrycans, and we'd have a crew just put
the jerrycans in the aircraft, and off they'd go
again. He said, okay, you get out there and find out
what's going on. He said, I've got ten suits of
bastardy, And I've got 12 A walls out there. Get out
there and find out what's going on. Off the base,
though. Off the base, you had all these problems.
Yeah, out at this particular base where this was
going on. So I get out there and... Where was the
base, do you remember? It was a base in England.
Down near Chevelston.
I get out and I said... Well, your first problem is
you don't have a commander out here. And he says,
where's Crowley? And I said, he's soused in the
officer's club, and he's been in there three days.
And I understand from the captain out here that
it's been like that for about two or three weeks.
I've had a run-in with this Major Crowley before. I
was still a captain. I've had a run-in with him
before. And he says, OK, you stay there and take
command. And I'll get you relieved as soon as I can
find somebody else to come in there. I said, well,
Colonel, I said, I can't take command, but I'll
stay here and run it. He said, why can't you? And I
said, it's listed on our chart as a flying job. I'm
not rated. He says, when he called a captain's
name, he said, oh, they're in ops. Isn't he rated? I
said, yeah. He says, OK. You tell him that he's in
command, but stay in operations And you get that
damn gasoline thing running again. Well, the
sergeant and I had each taken out with just a
musette bag, you know, just a canvas bag. I stayed
there two weeks living out of that canvas bag until
he got another major. He got a major down there. He
relieved this guy and finally sent him on back to
the States. But it was a... just a round-the-clock
operation because the logistics department who
was stretching his line was such that he couldn't
bring it up from his rear and we had to always just
meet him as he was making his dash across the
country. So he'd make his dash and he'd tell you
what airstrip that he wants your planes at at a
certain time. With how much oil or as much gas as you
could get to them? The tank ran on the same fuel that
our birds ran on. Oh, okay. And so you'd meet them in
a certain place at a certain time. That's right.
And you'd just keep up with them all the time. Was it
easy or hard to work with? Who, me? Yeah.
Fortunately, I didn't have to communicate with
them. All I had to do was get the damn birds loaded
and ready for the ops to say, A-40 or C-69 or
wherever they were headed. Were a lot of your
airplanes shot down? No.
I guess the reason that they weren't is our
old man was a pretty
outspoken guy and he had his way. Les Arnold And
that doesn't mean anything to you, but Les was the
vice president of Eastern Airlines when he went
back on active duty for World War II. But he was also
one of the crew that made the first
round-the-world flight in the Douglas aircraft.
You know, the open cockpit job? He was one of those
guys. And he just told Fox, don't send me the C-46s.
I won't fly them. Well, the C-46 carried a hell of a
lot more weight than the C-47. But unfortunately,
all of its hydraulics were in a very critical area
right down the belly underneath. And a guy with a
rifle could put the damn thing out. And we proved it
by the first one that came over there. And he just
turned them down. And so what we were really using
to carry the cans back and forth were ripped out
B-17s and B-24s, which had a, boy, they'd fly on a
prairie. Yeah. So you'd use bombers then for
transports. That's right.
Just clean out all the innards. Cleaned out
everything. But they were birds that had gone back
to the depot, and the depot was a, you know, It'd be
more economic, or rather than rebuild it back to
the mom state, let's use them for this. We didn't
have the authority to rip them out, but we didn't
have any trouble with it that far. But Les was
fantastic.
He was of that age group and that and had the rapport
with the the top air force people because of his
position with eastern and even though he was just a
colonel and he you know he just talked to him like
you can't do that to it you know i've heard him on the
phone where any other colonel would probably been
crucified you know but there were a number of
people like that that were brought back into the
war see rickenbacker let him leave eastern
Rickenbacker was then president of Eastern. He
let him leave Eastern just to come back in during
the war, because they needed people
like that. Were there any other problems that you
were having as far as Air Inspector? Any other
major problems? Well, the next problem I had was a
personal problem. It took
me out of duty for a while.
developed some symptoms that they couldn't
determine what the hell was the matter with me and I
consented to an exploratory and they removed 14
inches of my small intestines and gave me a choice
as to whether I'd come home or go back to duty, and I
went back to duty. Didn't make the little gal
downstairs happy, but still.
Ain't no sense in going back and getting started
somewhere else, because it's been the same thing
all over, because everybody's coming home for 30
days, and then, whop, right back over. So I just
said, well, let's go.
As soon as I came out of the hospital, I went right
back to my same outfit because personnel people
had the way paved through the depot that I wasn't
about to go to another outfit. I was going right
back to the same outfit.
They made me a station agent. I was promoted to
major. Les' headquarters was at a great big white
mansion which was about two miles off of the RAF
base that we kept all our aircraft at.
This was at a base called RAF Heston. RAF Heston is
now in the approach zone of Heathrow, which is the
big airport in London. So it has been swallowed up
by the base. But that's where it was. And that put it
right straight in Buzz Bomb Alley. And
that's where we, though we didn't suffer any death
casualties we did suffer injuries and a lot of
physical damage at the base and we were well pretty
fortunate that Les Arnold's headquarters was not
on the base it was back off though it could have been
hit it had its own communication system
and everything but I went by one thing that that was
really interesting and to show you that no matter
who you are, you can always do something
different. The night before D-Day,
we had, and
of course this was even before this jerrycan
thing, the fly in the gasoline. Oh, absolutely.
Yeah,
somewhere in there. But the night before, the U.S.
Air Corps changed the symbols on all of its
airplanes. I don't know whether you were aware of
that or not, but we used to have just a star and a
circle. And the night before,
put the star with the big rectangle box out to each
side. Why was that? Because there were so many of
our birds down in Europe and being used by Jerry
that they wanted a definite identity of what was
ours and what wasn't ours. And all over the United
Kingdom, All the bomber bases, the fighter bases,
the transport bases, every aircraft we had that
night had the new symbol put on them. That took
every enlisted man and every officer. And boy, all
we did all night long was just paint those new
symbols on the birds. And of course, it paid off.
They tried to put some into our formations over the
beaches and things like that. In other words,
their symbol could be changed, or our old symbol
could be changed too easily to their symbol? No,
they were flying ours. They were flying our
symbol. They were flying our birds as though they
were peaceful, and then bombing us or strafing us.
I see, I see. So they'd get a hold of ours that went
down, repair them, and then fly ours. That's
right. I see. They'd fly them across North
Scotland or down in the mid or something like that.
Anywhere. And they'd look like ours. That's
right. So did we have a big problem with that? We had
a big problem with that. Well, there was enough of
it that... Somebody in Eisenhower's staff said,
we want them changed. We changed them so that when
we hit the beaches, we'll know which are ours.
We'll fire on all the old ones and let the new ones
come on through.
So the night before, all over the United Kingdom,
we were changing that outside symbol. And on
D-Day, were you involved in any way? On D-Day, just
there at the base of sending out the transports and
sending people down into the area where the troops
were going from. But I did not go into the beach or
anything. I didn't go into Cherbourg until, I went
into Cherbourg about three days after Cherbourg
was taken. And we established our first point
there of freight being moved by our aircraft in the
Cherbourg. And then the next point that I moved
into was into Paris. But at Cherbourg it was
basically move in as much military supplies as
fast as possible. Flying the essentials.
Everything else still came in by boat and by
lighter. But the essentials were flown in.
Medical supplies, ammunition, stuff like that?
No, ammunition. We didn't fly anything. What did
you fly in? Parts. Mechanical parts. And were you
flying the old bombers or were you flying
anything? Anything that we had. Most of, by that
time, the we were pretty well equipped with C-47.
And what was your job, Sherbert? I went in and
established the layout of the camp and stayed in
there until they got the things set up, and then I
came on back. And then I went in and did the same
thing. Somebody else was in charge of that. And
then I did the same thing, and when they liberated
Paris, I went in I made the assessment on what we had
to do to Le Bourget. Le Bourget is where Lindbergh
landed and had just been bombed to hell. They told
us that we were going to have to operate out of Le
Bourget because the inner theater aircraft, the
big transports, were going to work from Orly to the
other airports.
Another officer now went in and made the
assessment. What's the difference now? I'm not
quite clear on that. What do you mean the other
aircraft were going to... The inter-theater from
Paris back to the United States. Oh, okay. The big,
which is now MAC. We were strictly theater. Okay,
okay. And they, by the time we knew that we...
That's not a good statement. I was going to say, by
the time we knew we had Paris, we didn't know that
for quite a while. But anyway, the plan was that we
would start bypassing the United Kingdom. You
want to light on it? No. Oh, no. But we'd bypass the
United Kingdom so you can start working straight
to the continent. Uh-huh. And so they got orally.
And we got one on the other side of town. OK, so any
Washington or New York to Paris, then they go
straight into Orland. Into Orland. OK. And the big
general hospital was set right out about three
miles from Orland, so that it could be very back to
the state. But working strictly in Tron Theater,
we got the other side of town. And the conditions
there were all bombs. Oh, yeah. fact is how did the
germans do this before they allowed to no no we did
it we did it and then had to go in and sometimes we're
foolish but then we had to go in and bulldoze it over
and or just ignore part of their buttons but i went
to an air show there and but your job was to clean it
up right my job was to go and make the assessment as
to what we would have to do to use Leborger. You
know, and how much engineering effort we had to get
to get the rubble out of the way, and how much runway
we'd have to have repaired, and so on. Well, they
carried part. We did. I mean, we went in. Hell, we
had to get in. You know, all it was was not whether,
can you use this? What's the effort to use it?
Because it being... communication center. There
was no way that we could operate in the theater
unless we were in there. Now our headquarters by
that time we had grown from the 27th Air Transport
Group had been joined with the 31st and it was now
the 302nd Transport Wing. So that made it about
twice the size, not completely, but about twice
the size that we had before then. Because the 31st
came up from the southern, from the belly through
Italy and coming up that way. And then they joined
them together. And the 302nd Transport Wing
headquarters was located in downtown Paris after
we had moved into Le Bourget and they had moved on up
the country. But I said a while ago, after we had
felt that we had Paris, when the general told the
Germans nuts at Bastogne, had Bastogne fallen,
then everybody that was at Compiègne would have
moved to Paris. And everybody that was in Paris
would have either moved south in France or back to
the United Kingdom. And we were already packed to
go back to the United Kingdom. This was our order,
you know. Had the dominoes started falling,
because... You were going to make a strategic
retreat. Well, we had to make room for everybody
else. But fortunately, it didn't come about. And
Compiègne held, which was the advance...
headquarters and Paris was the logistical
support headquarters. But that was not a very
happy Christmas because a number of us knew what
was about to happen. Let's get back to Paris now.
You went in there and when was this? About
September of 1944? October? Right after it was
liberated? Yes. Okay. And at that time I was the
director of personnel of the 300 second transport
wing, as well as the agent general of the wing. And
to give you an idea, that's 1,000 officers, 5,000
enlisted, and 1,500 civilians. But again,
remember that spread, United Kingdom, France,
all the way down to southern France. We didn't have
anybody in Italy, but we were all through France
and all through the United Kingdom.
It was a table of organization that was crazy when
it was based, the way administration can get
screwed up, it was based on a table of organization
equipment that was put together for the HUP in
India. And TO had six officers authorized, and we
had 36 officers.
Any time you do that, all you do is you rob 30
authorizations from your subordinates. And it
makes promotions pretty damn rough. I was sitting
there as a major in the lieutenant colonel's slot.
What a way in the world to get promoted. So
everything is eaten up, you know. Then they
started holding us to authorization. Now, can you
tell me about the conditions in Paris? You must
have gone into Paris. And about the people, how
they treated you.
Well,
the Parisians There are French people and there
are Parisians.
The Frenchman, individually, is one of the nicest
guys that I think you'll ever want to know.
Collectively, they're a bunch of milk hounds.
They get, we were talking about spirit and emotion
earlier. They get all wrapped up and they're just
too damn easy to get let off on the wrong track or
something like that. We had no problems with them
because, again, we were
the big liberators and a lot of them knew it even
though we sat back and a number of units like us were
in there, no big U.S. unit with great big generals
came in until after De Gaulle did. De Gaulle made
the sweep into Paris and took all of the glory and
everything. Even though we had units already in
there. They didn't put generals in to make parades
and claim the victory. They let De Gaulle come in.
But the Frenchmen knew who were in there. Because
At that time, de Gaulle still didn't have France
completely under his wings. He was still a little
questionable.
We had some misgivings with some of their military
are owning it. We lived in a fabulous, the officers
lived in a fabulous big house out on the edge of the
border balloon, which is the fashionable part of
Paris. And directly across the street from the
Gauls residence. And every once in a while,
security would get a little concerned about our
conduct or what was going on and come over and try to
quiet us down or something like that and so our
provost marshal was always having to remind them
that when they crossed the threshold they were in
u.s territory not in france you know and he spoke
pretty good french and he managed to communicate
with him i guess the worst time that we ever had with
him was We got up on top of our building and started
cutting off the submachine gun and the .45s
because we didn't have any firecrackers. That
really put a security force into activity, but we
lived through it. So would you consider then that
the relations between the French and the American
soldiers, as far as you knew, were rather
strained? No. Friendly? Oh, they were friendly,
sure. We're just in an isolated situation here
where if I was guarding the galleys, it would scare
the hell out of me, too. Sure. Absolutely.
This same lieutenant
named Carter from Boston, Massachusetts, he was a
subordinate of mine and was a provost marshal. And
he was out one day and he found a marshaling yard
that had a huge supply of coal. And it was the size of
coal that you would use in a boiler, like on a
locomotive or even in a heating plant. And he came
back and reported it to me. And I immediately told
the old man about it. And he called the chief of
staff in. And the chief of staff was Colonel Henry
Bevelle. And he said, OK, Henry. you'll take half
of the officers and half the enlisted men
tomorrow, and Hub, you'll take the other half the
next day, and we're going to move that coat. And so
Henry went out with his half, and I went out the next
day with my half, and then when Henry went back out
the next day, it was run by military police. So we
only got two days haul of coal out of there. But we
had officers and men hauling coal like they came
out of West Virginia because coal was in real short
supply. And just what we got kicked to our supply.
Saw us through the winter comfortably. Oh, man.
And the enlisted men too. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And then
the French military police went on? Oh, the U.S.
military police. Oh, the U.S. military police.
But they didn't make you bring back the... No, no,
they didn't know. They didn't know. They might
have known, but there was no way they were going to
make us bring it back.
All they were doing was just protecting it for the
supply people then. We didn't figure the supply
people had any more title to it than we did. It was a
bombed-out railroad yard, but... Well,
anyway, it was from that headquarters that
Colonel Angel, that we had referred to earlier,
had been the administrative assistant to the
president at A&M.